As well, and so
these are kind of here as well.
And then there's one point I make,
possibly the most dangerous game of
Etch A Sketch, as I lost immediately.
This snake will never
clean up after itself.
So it's basically, you might wanna keep
a score, there's a timer function as well,
to see how long you can survive
before it goes back on itself.
And we've got actually how to
make a realistic game of Snake.
We're not gonna build this whole way
through cuz it's actually a little bit
involved.
But we'll talk through it cuz I
think it's super interesting, again,
you can explore it as well.
If you go to this one in particular,
I've gone through and
commented on all the code as well.
So it's kinda go step by step
about what each piece is doing.
And I'll kinda explain it to
you while we're here together.
But let's kinda just take a tour of it,
and you can kind of follow along.
Let me move my comments out of the way
from when I cleaned up my code.
Whee, cool, so
we've got a few things that happen.
I've got when the green flag is
checked we have this set up,
cuz I didn't want to see that
all over my thing, right?
Which is delete everything,
start it in the right place,
erase the page,
put everything back to normal.
Our controls are the controls you've
seen 1,000 times at this point.
It's like the Pac-Man rules,
which is that we always move forward.
Touching the color purple,
you're done, cuz the snake is purple.
If touching the apple, get longer is
really the only thing, and move the apple.
The interesting part is that
basically the way this works is,
if you look at it,
there are two lists happening here.
I'm keeping two lists
before it gets restarted,
which is for every segment of the snake,
where those go, right?
So what happens is,
when the snake moves forward,
it stores its last position,
very similar to the platformer.
It moves one forward, right,
draw all those previous positions,
I just go through the list of the x and y.
Remember when we did that,
going through the catchphrases?
It's the same idea, go through the list,
use the pen tool to draw those segments,
then pop the last one off until
you eat another apple, right?
If you have more segments than the number
of apples eaten, shorten it again.
And then, you'll always have
a number of trailing ones,
Caleb was talking about this earlier.
A number of trailing snake segments where
they were previously losing the last one
every time, but adding the new head of
the snake onto the end as well, and so
we draw the snake behind it each time.
It uses the same thing we saw in
the platformer with that, I'll show you,
where is the, draw a snake?
Right, does it run without
screen refresh as well?
Right, so the snake is getting drawn but
you don't see it getting drawn,
you can turn it off and
kinda see it, I'll show you.
Let's hide those, [LAUGH] this
list is taking up a lot of space.
So that's what happens if you have
the screen refresh turned on.
It is literally drawing those pieces
of snake behind it every time,
that's obnoxious.
So you don't wanna see that, all you wanna
see is the end result of figuring out
where I should have put
the pen down each time.
It's actually using stamp, which is
basically, again, I'm using everything
you understand about a pen, that motion,
to make a stamp of the sprite.
So unlike infinite snake that just goes on
forever, this one will draw all the pieces
right behind it for
whatever the length should be.
>> Well, you don't have a head,
it's headless.
>> So, once upon a time, there weren't
iPhones, there were Nokia phones, and
they only [LAUGH] had a certain number of
pixels on them, and this is all you got.
You didn't even get a real-looking apple,
you just got a different dot that you were
chasing down, and to text,
you only had numbers.
And if you wanted to make an S,
you had to hit 9 like four times, or
7 four times, okay?
Life is hard sometimes, [LAUGH] I also
had to walk uphill to school both ways,
I don't know how that happened.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> [LAUGH] It's pixel style.
>> Really?
[LAUGH]
>> This is the snake I grew up with, okay?
>> Can you run into your tail?
>> This is your dad snake.
[LAUGH]
>> Can you run into your tail or no?
>> No.
>> Does it work that way?
>> I had it set on Nokia Snake rules,
you cannot run into your own tail.
[LAUGH] I followed Nokia Snake,
Margaret, are you fact checking
whether it was true in Nokia snake?
[LAUGH] [INAUDIBLE]
>> I am pretty sure
that under official Snake rules
you cannot turn back on yourself.
>> I don't think you can.
[CROSSTALK]
>> I have the Snake game.
>> You have the Snake game, okay?
>> What?
>> In Google Snake, if you turn
back on yourself, nothing happens.
>> Correct.
>> Did I get fact-checked?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah, I'm playing it right now.
>> I am pretty sure I have played,
yeah, can you turn back or
you're just showing it?
>> Yeah, I was just showing them
what it was like, but yeah.
>> Yeah, that is the-
>> The point of Snake is it gets harder
when the tail gets longer.
>> Yeah, I think you can't double
back on yourself, cuz then-
>> The hard part was not to bump into
other snakes.
>> The original Snake-
>> [LAUGH] OG Snake.
>> You are the snake, you continue to grow
until you fill up the whole screen almost.
>> Do you see the technology
we were working with?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah, this is basically inspired from
a 1976 arcade game called Blockade,
you really wanna go deep.
>> This is the version of Snake that we
are looking at, that snake can go through,
I think it looks like.
>> To the other side?
>> Yeah.
>> There's no walls?
>> Well, it's like the old Pac-Man
where if you come out of one side,
it comes out on the other side, yeah.
>> [LAUGH] I was thinking this is
what's gonna happen on my flight home,
right now my snake does
not go through the walls.
It might by the time [LAUGH] you
watch this, I'm like, that's cool.
But yeah, the pen tool, other than the
idea that I'm keeping track of two x's and
y's simultaneously to kinda keep the x and
y coordinates.
Cuz, for job descriptors in the room,
there is no objects or
anything, you only have
arrays of single values.
Other than that, it's like a lot of the
same concepts we've talked about in this,
just with a pen tool drawing behind it.
So I would check that out,
let me just show you one more
cool thing that I would encourage
you on your explorations.
And all of these are linked from
the website with how to do them and
stuff along those lines.
Check it out, there's a video sensing, and
this is just the stupidest
thing in the world.
I think I might have to, hold on,
let's go into my projects.
Where's my video cat?
When I, Touch the cat, it says hello,
so now I am the sprite.
>> I didn't know you were a cat.
>> I'm not the cat, I'm me,
the cat is the cat.
Right, and so you can actually use
the webcam you can control stuff through.
There's a bunch of really
cool extensions for
how you can build on top of this as well.
>> You can kind of try to,
can you do Fruit Ninja?
>> Yo.
[LAUGH]
>> Very interesting to play on
the ride home.
[LAUGH]
>> Boy, there went my weekend.